moma_controllers/moma_ocs2/README.md, before:

### moma_ocs2

This package provides an interface to ocs2 for control of a mobile manipulator. `ocs2` is a general MPC-DDP solver. In this implementation the robot is represented as a 7-dof mobile manipulator with differential drive base (this can be easily adapted/changed in the future). 

The system dynamics consist in the kinematic model. As a consequence the model predictive controller optimizes the joint velocities and the base twist. The solution is subject to velocity constraints.

### Install

The solver has the potential to check for self collision by specifying which link pair should be checked for self collision. The collision checking library `hpp-fcl` needs therefore to be installed. System modelig (forward kinematics, auto-differentiation and derivatives) uses the `pinocchio` libray that needs to be installed as well. Standard binaries do not work here since, they do not come with support for the collision checking provided by `hpp-fcl`. 

#### Install hpp-fcl
Add the `robotpkg` repository to the available source. Find the system you are working on:
```
lsb_release -c`
```

In this case assume it is `bionic`. Then update the repositories:

```
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/robotpkg.list <<EOF
deb [arch=amd64] http://robotpkg.openrobots.org/packages/debian/pub bionic robotpkg
EOF
```

Add the key:

```
curl http://robotpkg.openrobots.org/packages/debian/robotpkg.key |
   sudo apt-key add -
```

Finally run a update to fetch all the information:

```
sudo apt-get update
```

Lastly install the packages. These are the tested versions but there are newer. These will be tested later on.

```
sudo apt-get install robotpkg-octomap=1.6.1
sudo apt-get install robotpkg-hpp-fcl=1.6.0
```

Then add the following lines to the `.bashrc` file and source it such that depending packages can find the collision detection library.

```
export PATH=/opt/openrobots/bin:$PATH
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/opt/openrobots/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/openrobots/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
export PYTHONPATH=/opt/openrobots/lib/python3.8/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH
export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/opt/openrobots:$CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH
```

#### Install pinocchio

Pinocchio does not come with default hpp-fcl integration and thus needs to be installed from source. 
First download the [repo](https://stack-of-tasks.github.io/pinocchio/download.html). 
The code has been tested for the current version that you need to checkout:
```
git checkout 29be057af1beb

```
After cloning, create a build directory and follow these instructions
```
mkdir build & cd build
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local/install -DBUILD_WITH_COLLISION_SUPPORT=ON
make -j4
make install 
```

Add the installation to your paths in the `.bashrc` file.
```
export PATH=/usr/local/bin:$PATH
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages
export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/usr/local:$CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH
```
#### Install ocs2

Clone this mirror [repository](http://github.com/grizzi/ocs2.git). Building requires CMake>=3.11. Tested on the panda laptop and since melodic was there at the time, the cmake version is too low. One quick fix is to download a newer CMake binaries and add these at the beginning of the CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH. This step is not required if the system CMake already satisfies the requirements.

#### (optional) Add newer CMake

Download the newer cmake binaries. For example cmake-3.16.3. Assuming that `CMAKE_INSTALL` is the directory containing the binary folders than add the following to the `.bashrc`:
```
export PATH=$HOME/Programs/$CMAKE_INSTALL/bin:$PATH
export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$HOME/$CMAKE_INSTALL:$CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH 
```

### Build

```
catkin config --cmake-args -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
catkin build moma_ocs2
```

Commit message:

Add quick start guide and installation script for moma_ocs2

moma_controllers/moma_ocs2/README.md, after:

### moma_ocs2

This package provides an interface to ocs2 for control of a mobile manipulator. `ocs2` is a general MPC-DDP solver. In this implementation the robot is represented as a 7-dof mobile manipulator with differential drive base (this can be easily adapted/changed in the future). 

The system dynamics consist in the kinematic model. As a consequence the model predictive controller optimizes the joint velocities and the base twist. The solution is subject to velocity constraints.

### Quick Start

This quick start procedure is designed for and tested on Ubuntu Bionic (18.04) with ROS Melodic.

- Follow the installation instructions of the repository root. In particular, install all main dependencies using [install_dependencies.sh](../../install_dependencies.sh) in the root folder.
- Ensure to have your Git ssh credentials set up.
- Set the environment variable `$CATKIN_WS` to the root of your catkin workspace, for example `export CATKIN_WS=~/moma_ws`.
- Install the dependencies of this project by running `./install_dependencies.sh`. DO NOT run this script with `sudo`. It will request these privileges as needed. The script checks the current system state before doing any installation and can be run again after fixing potential errors. Also, it should be run every time after pulling an update of this repository.
- Build the main package by `catkin build moma_ocs2`.
- Source your `~/.bashrc` file.

### Manual Install

The solver has the potential to check for self collision by specifying which link pair should be checked for self collision. The collision checking library `hpp-fcl` needs therefore to be installed. System modelig (forward kinematics, auto-differentiation and derivatives) uses the `pinocchio` libray that needs to be installed as well. Standard binaries do not work here since, they do not come with support for the collision checking provided by `hpp-fcl`. 

#### Install hpp-fcl
Add the `robotpkg` repository to the available source. Find the system you are working on:
```
lsb_release -c`
```

In this case assume it is `bionic`. Then update the repositories:

```
sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/robotpkg.list <<EOF
deb [arch=amd64] http://robotpkg.openrobots.org/packages/debian/pub bionic robotpkg
EOF
```

Add the key:

```
curl http://robotpkg.openrobots.org/packages/debian/robotpkg.key |
   sudo apt-key add -
```

Finally run a update to fetch all the information:

```
sudo apt-get update
```

Lastly install the packages. These are the tested versions but there are newer. These will be tested later on.

```
sudo apt-get install robotpkg-octomap=1.6.1
sudo apt-get install robotpkg-hpp-fcl=1.6.0
```

Then add the following lines to the `.bashrc` file and source it such that depending packages can find the collision detection library.

```
export PATH=/opt/openrobots/bin:$PATH
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/opt/openrobots/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/opt/openrobots/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
export PYTHONPATH=/opt/openrobots/lib/python3.8/site-packages:$PYTHONPATH
export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/opt/openrobots:$CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH
```

#### Install pinocchio

Pinocchio does not come with default hpp-fcl integration and thus needs to be installed from source. 
First download the [repo](https://stack-of-tasks.github.io/pinocchio/download.html). 
The code has been tested for the current version that you need to checkout:
```
git checkout 29be057af1beb

```
After cloning, create a build directory and follow these instructions
```
mkdir build & cd build
cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=/usr/local/install -DBUILD_WITH_COLLISION_SUPPORT=ON
make -j4
make install 
```

Add the installation to your paths in the `.bashrc` file.
```
export PATH=/usr/local/bin:$PATH
export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=/usr/local/lib/pkgconfig:$PKG_CONFIG_PATH
export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=/usr/local/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
export PYTHONPATH=$PYTHONPATH:/usr/local/lib/python2.7/dist-packages
export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=/usr/local:$CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH
```
#### Install ocs2

Clone this mirror [repository](http://github.com/grizzi/ocs2.git). Building requires CMake>=3.11. Tested on the panda laptop and since melodic was there at the time, the cmake version is too low. One quick fix is to download a newer CMake binaries and add these at the beginning of the CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH. This step is not required if the system CMake already satisfies the requirements.

#### (optional) Add newer CMake

Download the newer cmake binaries. For example cmake-3.16.3. Assuming that `CMAKE_INSTALL` is the directory containing the binary folders than add the following to the `.bashrc`:
```
export PATH=$HOME/Programs/$CMAKE_INSTALL/bin:$PATH
export CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH=$HOME/$CMAKE_INSTALL:$CMAKE_PREFIX_PATH 
```

### Build

```
catkin config --cmake-args -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=RelWithDebInfo
catkin build moma_ocs2
```
